
Maps

	Maps in Java are the .NET equivalent of Dictionaries. A Map in Java is a collection of key-value pairs. Duplicate keys are not allowed, but duplicate values are. Generally, you want to use a Map when you need to get a value from a collection by an ID. For instance, you should have a Map of settings to use throughout your program. The key would be the setting name, while the value would be the actual setting. The Big O Notation for Lookup is O(1) on average, which is very good.
	While I have not used Java's Maps in real-world code, I have used Dictionaries to perform Extract, Load, and Transform work on data. One of the most memorable uses I have made is creating very basic address-cleanup functionality. It involved loading into memory every possible City, State, and zip code combination in both the US and Canada to try to clean up bad addresses. The table I would read from had over a million records. Each database call took an average of 50-150 Milliseconds. At the same time, it doesn't sound too bad at first glance, if you had 10,000 customers. At best, you are looking at about 8 minutes to do all the customers. That is also assuming you only needed to hit the database once for the entire address. In reality, the database would need to be hit 3 times: once for City, once for State, and once for Zip. So the reality was closer to 25 minutes for just 10,000 customers. I regularly worked with databases of up to 150,000 customer records. To get back on track with what I am trying to get at, I updated the code so it loads the data into a dictionary in memory. Using dictionaries took what was at best 50 milliseconds down to at worst 1 millisecond. This change brought the time down for 150,000 customers to about 2.5 minutes.
	Maps/dictionaries are very much one of your best friends when it comes to collections of information. In real-life applications, I lean towards using Dictionaries more than I do lists, mostly because of the time saved by being able to look up by key. There are times when using a dictionary rather than a list doesn't make much sense. For instance, if you have a list of objects that may need duplicates, or if you care about order, it is better to use a list.
